The model has been developed since the end of the 1980Â´s at the Department of
Irrigation, Drainage and Land Scape Engineering, Faculty of Civil Engineering,
Czech Technical University in Prague. The first version of 1D model, designed
in the FORTRAN programming language, was developed in 1989. It included
processes influencing surface runoff and erosion. Two basically independent
submodels: (i) submodel 1 used for the calculation of admissible slope length
and designing of soil conservation measures, (ii) submodel 2 designed for the
calculation of runoff characteristics in order to implement technical
anti-erosion measures. Other versions of the model, launched particularly
between 1996 and 2001, further developed operating systems. However, these
versions did not considerably interfere with parameters and relations inside
the model.  

Compared to the previously introduced versions, a change related to runoff
parameters in the kinematic wave equation depending on soil types in accordance
with the Czech system of soil classification (CTCSS) occurred. This system uses
for the determination of basic soil types the content of particles up to 0.01
mm of the first size particle category (physical clay). The second modification
was introduced by replacement of the current generation in slopes. Previously,
the model functioned in particular sections of various lengths which had been
initially defined as parts of the slope between two contour lines with
identical vegetation and soil types. At the moment, the new model divides the
aforesaid sections into individual elements of the same length and forms thus
an interphase terminated by testing and comparison to the distributed 2D model. 

The 2D model which is developed in last year is prepared as an extension to the
GIS softwares QGIS, ArcGIS. The actual script to calculate the 2D model was
elaborated in Python and used in each providers.  

Mathematical calculation of surface runoff, the 2D model also includes a
submodel implemented for runoff calculation in the rills. 

The SMODERP2D episodic rainfall-runoff/erosion model was used for the
investiga-tion presented here. The 2D model is based on a 1D profile version,
in which the surface runoff and the erosion were typically calculated in
several 1D profiles representing the main flow path in the hillslope [20]. The
current generation of the SMODERP2D model is pixel distributed, and is
implemented in python in order to be compatible with most GIS software. The
development is presented on the github platform at
github.com/storm-fsv-cvut/smoderp2d (accessed on 1 January 2022). 

The SMODERP2D model is primarily designed for surface runoff and erosion
com-putation. The surface flow routing in the model is based on the digital
elevation model (DEM). DEM also controls the spatial discretization of the
model. 
